[Music]
now check this out
in 1993 Xavier Sotomayor did what nobody
can repeat to this day he jumped over
eight feet in height but to become the
absolute champion Xavier would have to
jump on to the Eiffel Tower
confused I can understand let me explain
looking at the average human you can't
help but wonder how in the world did
this soft and let's be fair
clumsy looking creature ever get to the
point where we all rest now we certainly
aren't the apex predators here we aren't
the fastest runners as cheetahs about
that we can't properly swim or fly we
don't succeed even in climbing but
somehow we've climbed to the top rank of
nature itself but we certainly didn't
jump up there you think jumping you
think something like a kangaroo these
animals don't even walk they hop but boy
are they good at that they can speed up
to 44 miles per hour over short
distances and on distances over a mile
they will outpace the best human
athletes that ever lived
all thanks to their mighty legs but some
can also use their thick tails as a
third leg to launch them high up
kangaroos can jump over to average
people standing on top of each other you
know Shaq there's a mouse that can jump
well over his head in one hop and it's a
kangaroo mouse in a way it's even cooler
than what a kangaroo does because it's
so tiny
the kangaroo Mouse oh is its name to the
big Australian brother because it also
moves by jumping on the two hind legs
when it jumps nine feet high it jumps
ten times its own body length it can
change direction however it wants with
every leap good luck catching this one
moving on to the ocean dolphins are the
best jumpers here they can jump ten feet
over the surface of the water and there
is a chance you've seen it in a
dolphinarium at least once the cool
thing about dolphins is that since they
live in water they have no need to jump
like that they do it for sport and just
for the fun of it just like us
some animals may become champion
athletes simply because they live
besides nasty and always hungry beasts
like lions or cheetahs impalas certainly
do and they can leap over a small bus
add this to the fact that they run
pretty fast and you get the idea behind
that initial leap it keeps impalas safe
and lions themselves are no joke either
even my cat can jump right on the fridge
to get to the yummy treats double that
height and this is how high a lion can
jump things like that really makes you
hope you never get to be in the poor
impalas hooves mountain lions are even
jumpier though when you have to leap
from cliff to cliff and you need to
catch something like a mountain goat for
dinner you know your whole life depends
on every single jump you make mountain
lions also known as Cougars and Pumas
have to hop high 20 feet high to be
precise basically that means Pumas can
jump over a giraffe's head now that's
some high hopping yet when it comes to
long jumping there are too many cheaters
they cheat because they sort of can fly
or Glide even fish can do that a flying
fish can jump up above the water and use
its fins to fly for over 40 seconds
straight
flying squirrels can glide over a
football field all at once and even
flying snakes can do that by launching
themselves off the trees and slithering
through the air in an S shape for over
even longer distances my judgment on
that gliding is totally banned in this
competition it may seem that if you
would jump like a frog can you would be
able to hop onto the Statue of Liberty
easily but here's a catch we think frogs
are good at hopping because they jump
really far not high when it comes to
distance it's around 40 to 50 times
their body length the absolutely master
though is the American bullfrog which
can jump over seven feet a frog human
superhero would jump over the whole
wingspan of a Boeing 747 with this
ability now if I learned something from
cartoons is that you should never try to
catch the roadrunner you'll go over the
cliff it's
in the canyon every time but I also
learned that rabbits are excellent at
jumping
white-tailed Jackrabbit in particular is
one of the mightiest jumpers you can
ever meet the best recorded hop this
fluffy long eared pal ever performed
would make it land right on the top of a
giraffe head even mountain lions would
learn to respect that if a predator
needs a concentrated leap to give its
best jump rabbits would do that any
second as soon as they're startled and
if I learned something else from
cartoons rabbits are easily scared
except for Bugs Bunny not scared that
one grasshoppers can make all of the
previous contesters run for their money
ever seen those catapults they use for
legs that's their musical instrument but
more importantly it's a jumping machine
capable of launching them from any
danger I really didn't want to get to
this scary part but spiders can jump too
and the worst thing they can live
anywhere if you want to assure your
safety from them go to Antarctica but
seriously they are harmless and
extremely tiny and kind of cute looking
things their legs aren't powerful they
can just expand like Pistons launching
them up to 50 times their own length
it's like having boots with Springs in
them jumping spider sure know how to
have fun
barking spiders are another thing
entirely but still it's nothing next to
a frog hopper this tiny insect jumps
straight up 27 and a half inches which
is 100 times its body length among the
insects
it's the jumpiest it possibly gets
kangaroo with this kind of hopping power
would jump on the Great Pyramid of Giza
let's just say human athletes definitely
don't stand a chance beating that but
there is one contestant that can still
fight for the title of the best Jumper
in the world a flea it jumps only 10
inches high but for something that's
small it's as if a person could jump
over 250 foot tall building or the
Eiffel Tower it's long legs allows it to
jump 200 times its own body length and
lift objects 150 times heavier than the
flea itself fleas are more like space
rockets than insects because while they
launch into the air
go through a lot more acceleration force
than a rocket does when taking off and
just like astronauts they can't go on
for a long time
even if a tiny hole appears in their
sturdy armor overall fleas are yucky but
in the jumping record charts you need to
give credit where credit is due they are
the best jumpers in the whole world but
trap-jaw ant's can surprise even a flea
not in how far and high they can jump
but how fast for an outside observer it
will seem like a trap-jaw ant just
disappears in a fraction of a second in
reality trap-jaw ant's can open their
jaws 180 degrees store a lot of energy
inside their head and then snap when in
danger a trap-jaw ant aims its head
downwards and launches itself up in the
air faster than a speeding bullet Oh
tiny plankton copepods are even more
impressive than that though they to play
a bit dirty when living in the water
they still jump through it because being
so tiny under the pressure almost bans
you from conventional swimming
fortunately cocoa pods have more than
capable legs they launch them forward
with the velocity of 1000 times their
body length per second it's one of the
most powerful movements ever recorded in
the whole animal kingdom I guess it
would still have to come out of the
ocean to be to flee in this competition
but in the water it has no equal now I
don't know about you but this whole
topic is making me kind of jumpy yeah I
said it hey if you learn something new
today then give the video a like and
share with a friend and here are some
other cool videos I think you'll enjoy
just click to the left or right and
remember stay on the bright side of life
[Music]